docs: documentation for available metrics/stats (#3171)
runatlantis/atlantis: runatlantis.io/docs/stats.md

## Configuration

Metrics are configured through the [Server Side Config](server-side-repo-config.html#metrics).

> ## Available Metrics/Stats

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Available Metrics
```

> There are plenty of metrics which are exposed by atlantis service. Let's say you have exposed metrics from a endpoint `/metrics` from your [Server Side Config](server-side-repo-config.html#metrics)

Reviewer: Let's keep this short and sweet and remove the you/your voice from the doc

```suggestion
Assuming metrics are exposed from the endpoint `/metrics` from the [metrics](server-side-repo-config.html#metrics) server side config e.g.

```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

metrics:
  prometheus:
    endpoint: "/metrics"
```

> then on making curl request to your atlantis server on path `/metrics` will list down all the metrics exposed from atlantis service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

To see all the metrics exposed from atlantis service, make a GET request to the `/metrics` endpoint.
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

curl localhost:4141/metrics
# HELP atlantis_cmd_autoplan_builder_execution_error atlantis_cmd_autoplan_builder_execution_error counter
# TYPE atlantis_cmd_autoplan_builder_execution_error counter
atlantis_cmd_autoplan_builder_execution_error 0
# HELP atlantis_cmd_autoplan_builder_execution_success atlantis_cmd_autoplan_builder_execution_success counter
# TYPE atlantis_cmd_autoplan_builder_execution_success counter
atlantis_cmd_autoplan_builder_execution_success 10
# HELP atlantis_cmd_autoplan_builder_execution_time atlantis_cmd_autoplan_builder_execution_time summary
# TYPE atlantis_cmd_autoplan_builder_execution_time summary
atlantis_cmd_autoplan_builder_execution_time{quantile="0.5"} NaN
atlantis_cmd_autoplan_builder_execution_time{quantile="0.75"} NaN
atlantis_cmd_autoplan_builder_execution_time{quantile="0.95"} NaN
atlantis_cmd_autoplan_builder_execution_time{quantile="0.99"} NaN
atlantis_cmd_autoplan_builder_execution_time{quantile="0.999"} NaN
atlantis_cmd_autoplan_builder_execution_time_sum 11.42403017
atlantis_cmd_autoplan_builder_execution_time_count 10

> .....

Reviewer: Might as well list all of them, no?

Author: The whole output is 300+ lines, which will take up more space on documentation page and with every new version release this metric set will need to updated accordingly as there may be case if some metrics are added/deprecated, so it's better to just give a brief idea of how they will look like and rest can be explored. Let me know if there any issues with this approach.

Reviewer: Good point. Could you mention this on the page to state that that is why the output is trimmed?

Author: mentioned at https://github.com/runatlantis/atlantis/pull/3171/files#diff-ed3d3eb5ab28409011a42ca500407d05273e7ecf5c5a4143bba27b5a95220972R43

.....
.....
```

> Some of the important metrics which you would like to monitor are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Important metrics to monitor are
```

| Metric Name                                  | Metric Type                                                          | Purpose                                                                                                                                  |
|----------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | atlantis_cmd_autoplan_execution_error        | [counter](https://prometheus.io/docs/concepts/metric_types/#counter) | since starting of atlantis server, the number of times when [autoplan](autoplanning.html#autoplanning) on the MR’s has thrown error.     |

Reviewer: We can shorten the description here by

- removing the period
- removing the mention "since starting" since this is true for all metrics
- removing the mention of MR since we have a lot of non gitlab users

```suggestion
| `atlantis_cmd_autoplan_execution_error`        | [counter](https://prometheus.io/docs/concepts/metric_types/#counter) | number of times when [autoplan](autoplanning.html#autoplanning) throws an error     |
```

We can also surround the metric name with backticks

Lets do this for each of the rows in this table

Author: updated as per the suggestion.

| atlantis_cmd_comment_plan_execution_error    | [counter](https://prometheus.io/docs/concepts/metric_types/#counter) | since starting of atlantis server, the number of times when on commenting `atlantis plan` on the MR’s has thrown error.                  |
| atlantis_cmd_autoplan_execution_success      | [counter](https://prometheus.io/docs/concepts/metric_types/#counter) | since starting of atlantis server, the number of times when [autoplan](autoplanning.html#autoplanning) on the MR’s has run successfully. |
| atlantis_cmd_comment_apply_execution_error   | [counter](https://prometheus.io/docs/concepts/metric_types/#counter) | since starting of atlantis server, the number of times when on commenting `atlantis apply` on the MR’s has thrown error.                 |
| atlantis_cmd_comment_apply_execution_success | [counter](https://prometheus.io/docs/concepts/metric_types/#counter) | since starting of atlantis server, the number of times when on commenting `atlantis apply` on the MR’s has run successfully.             |

> 

Reviewer: Please include screenshots of any notable graphs. This would encourage others to enable prom metrics :)

Author: again [same reason](https://github.com/runatlantis/atlantis/pull/3171#discussion_r1118095097), apologies.

> Since there are a plenty of metrics exposed by atlantis, so you can go through them all and çan monitor the one's which are well suited for you.

Reviewer: Please rewrite to remove the you / your voice

Author: removed.

> Since there are a plenty of metrics exposed by atlantis, so you can go through them all and çan monitor the one's which are well suited for you.

Reviewer: If you have an Atlantis prom dashboard, please feel free to publish one and link it here.

Author: Sure i would have done that, but they are internal to our organisation, so i can't publish them.

Reviewer: The dashboard itself can be anonymized of course. Not worries tho, just thought I'd ask.

## Configuration

Metrics are configured through the [Server Side Config](server-side-repo-config.html#metrics).

## Available Metrics

Assuming metrics are exposed from the endpoint `/metrics` from the [metrics](server-side-repo-config.html#metrics) server side config e.g.

> ```yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```yaml
```

```bash
curl localhost:4141/metrics
# HELP atlantis_cmd_autoplan_builder_execution_error atlantis_cmd_autoplan_builder_execution_error counter
# TYPE atlantis_cmd_autoplan_builder_execution_error counter
atlantis_cmd_autoplan_builder_execution_error 0
# HELP atlantis_cmd_autoplan_builder_execution_success atlantis_cmd_autoplan_builder_execution_success counter
# TYPE atlantis_cmd_autoplan_builder_execution_success counter
atlantis_cmd_autoplan_builder_execution_success 10
# HELP atlantis_cmd_autoplan_builder_execution_time atlantis_cmd_autoplan_builder_execution_time summary
# TYPE atlantis_cmd_autoplan_builder_execution_time summary
atlantis_cmd_autoplan_builder_execution_time{quantile="0.5"} NaN
atlantis_cmd_autoplan_builder_execution_time{quantile="0.75"} NaN
atlantis_cmd_autoplan_builder_execution_time{quantile="0.95"} NaN
atlantis_cmd_autoplan_builder_execution_time{quantile="0.99"} NaN
atlantis_cmd_autoplan_builder_execution_time{quantile="0.999"} NaN
atlantis_cmd_autoplan_builder_execution_time_sum 11.42403017
atlantis_cmd_autoplan_builder_execution_time_count 10
.....
.....
.....
```

> ::: tip NOTE

Reviewer: ```suggestion

::: tip NOTE
```

| `atlantis_cmd_autoplan_execution_error`        | [counter](https://prometheus.io/docs/concepts/metric_types/#counter) | number of times when [autoplan](autoplanning.html#autoplanning) has thrown error. |
| `atlantis_cmd_comment_plan_execution_error`    | [counter](https://prometheus.io/docs/concepts/metric_types/#counter) | number of times when on commenting `atlantis plan` has thrown error.      |
| `atlantis_cmd_autoplan_execution_success`      | [counter](https://prometheus.io/docs/concepts/metric_types/#counter) | number of times when [autoplan](autoplanning.html#autoplanning) has run successfully. |
| `atlantis_cmd_comment_apply_execution_error`   | [counter](https://prometheus.io/docs/concepts/metric_types/#counter) | number of times when on commenting `atlantis apply` has thrown error.     |
| `atlantis_cmd_comment_apply_execution_success` | [counter](https://prometheus.io/docs/concepts/metric_types/#counter) | number of times when on commenting `atlantis apply` has run successfully. |

> Since there are a plenty of metrics exposed by atlantis, so one can go through them all and çan monitor the one's which are well suited for them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are plenty of additional metrics exposed by atlantis that are not described above.
```

Author: i guess better to add inside NOTE section.
